well I guess it's uh it's it's it's a
first
step and hopefully in the
right I mean that after successive
successive humanitarian poses and
successive releases of Hostage hostages
that would uh hopefully and ultimately
pave the way
for a
ceasefire and I I guess that the latest
diplomatic moves in the Middle East the
visit by Mr Ambassador William Burns the
director of the CIA uh touring some Arab
capitals and then going to DHA to meet
uh with uh the director of The Mad
Israel's mad with the katari uh prime
minister and foreign minister and then
from there uh the uh Amir tamim flies to
Egypt has flown to Egypt today to meet
with the Egyptian president
president I guess there is something
cooking something
cooking uh on two levels the first level
I I I think is of course uh the release
of some
hostages against humanitarian forces uh
negotiated by the Biden Administration
the other level is in in
the medium term that this poses could
lead to a ceasefire that's and and
that's why and and and that's why uh
yesterday the three top uh leaders in
Hamas were in CaRu and and and they met
with the director of the intelligence
service and I I guess my my I have a
hunch that things are moving slowly in
the right direction well can I challenge
you on that analysis a little bit
because intuitively I understand it
makes complete sense and it's also what
Hashem was telling us a moment ago that
you start small right you start on a
small window of cessation of fighting
and the and and Biden is presenting it
as a step in the right direction as you
said the idea is you start small and you
go towards a bigger pause in the
fighting but is that is that actually
the case I mean there's no evidence that
that would be the case the Israelis if
and when they formally agree to this
pause in the fighting it will entirely
on their terms won't
it well I I doubt it very much because
it seems to me uh going over the latest
statements coming out of the white house
uh and the statement by uh the United
States Secretary of State Mr Anthony
blinkin in Tokyo the day before
yesterday uh after the meetings of the
foreign minister G7 I guess
this gives us an inkling of what the
Biden Administration is is up to of
course the American Administration does
not want to uh get involved in in a head
done confrontation with uh the Israeli
Prime Minister bamin Nat and this for
two main reasons first of all and the
first reason is related to uh domestic
American politics we all know the
relations between Mr Netanyahu and the
Republican party and the and the other
reason is they don't they don't want
they don't want Mr
Netanyahu to appear in front of the
Israeli public opinion as if he standing
against the American
Administration uh having said that
having said that I guess the American
approach now is to soften the positions
by Mr Netanyahu personally personally
and in order in the uh in the next few
weeks they get what they are are aiming
at successive poses on for humanitarian
reasons and then ultimately cease fire
having said that having said that U some
some
American uh
military military are questioning the
long-term Israeli strategy and the g
yeah and we have seen we have seen a
statement by the new uh Chief of Staff
of of the uh of the United States when
he said that we are afraid he's speaking
about talking about the United States we
are afraid that the longer this War uh
uh lasts the more uh hsh and the more
violent the Palestinians would become so
I guess I guess yeah there is we I have
I have detected I have detected some
differences in approach in the American
approach and the isra approach to how to
manage this conflict right now and and
what and and what will be the the ending
politically speaking and strategically
speaking if we go yes the day before
yesterday okay just because I just
because I'm pressed for time and we have
so much to cover in this news before
yesterday Mr
set
out set set out set out the red lines
that the American Administration uh have
laid uh down for everyone to hear and
for instance when he spoke about Gaza he
said no reconquest no Siege no forc
displacement displacement of the
Palestinian in Gaza all right whether
now or tomorrow or again and again
and then he spoke about the Palestinian
Authority ex exercising
exercising civilian control over the
West Bank and the Gaza state so I I
think that the American Administration
is moving now into the broader picture
and in order to carry out this I'm going
to have to jump in and move on
unfortunately okay I I really thank you
for your time and your analysis I will
note that as you as you speak and as you
bring up you know the question of what
is the strategy long term of course
we're always looking at the live picture
and it's so jarring to hear of what
happens long term I'm not saying that
it's uh that it's um not relevant it
absolutely is but it is so jarring to
hear of that when you're seeing what's
happening in the immediate term and
there are entire stretches of Gaza that
have been reduced to Rubble as we this
as we see the smoke billowing over the
guys the Skies of Gaza alive um but we
appreciate the context it's necessary
and we'll continue to come back to that
thank you very much Mr Hussein herid
military analyst former field artillery
officer thank you very
much